README.md, before:

# Sql Server T-Sql Trigger Write File

## Objectives

* Implement t-sql triggers to write out file to disk
* One file per table per statement
* File content to list all the values and the action type taken
* Sql Server 2019 running on windows server 2019 data center edition VM on Azure
* File name: path with table name, action taken, dash, YYYY-MM-DDTHH-MM-SS-MS, dot, json
* File content:
```
[
	{
		"FareTypeId": 1,
		"FareTypeAbbr": "STA",
		"Description": "Standard Fare",
		"FlatRate": 2.0,
		"DistanceRate": 0.0,
		"PolygonRate": 0.0,
		"TimeRate": 0.0,
		"PolyTypeId": 0,
		"FareAdjustDiffZon": 0.0,
		"FareAdjustSameZon": 0.0,
		"DistanceLimitSameZon": 0.0,
		"DistanceLimitDiffZon": 0.0,
		"NumCode": 1,
		"FareMode": 0,
		"FareCalcType": 0,
		"Timestamp": "2002-10-02T15:00:00.05Z"
	}
]
```
* In case of error generating file, write record to sql server table: CqrsErrors
* A separate deliverable to send the files to Azure Event Hub
* A separate deliverable to implement CqrsErrors processing  

## Sql Server Configuration

* One-time setup using powershell execute:
```
$dbname="Trapeze6_Generic"
# Once per Sql Server instance
sqlcmd -d $dbname -i ./common/sqlserver-config.sql
# Once per Sql Server database 
sqlcmd -d $dbname -i ./common/fn-file-name.sql
sqlcmd -d $dbname -i ./common/fn-write-file.sql
sqlcmd -d $dbname -i ./common/cqrs-errors-ddl.sql
sqlcmd -d $dbname -i ./common/sp-log-cqrs-error.sql

# Once per table to cqrs
sqlcmd -d $dbname -i ./fare-types/tr-fare-types-cqrs.sql
```

* Login to Windows VM and create new user e.g. `sqlservice`
* Unselect: `User must change password at next login`
* Select: `Password never expires`
* Add the newly created user to `Administrators` group
* Open `Local Security Policies` -> `Local Policies` -> `User Rights Assignment` -> `Log on as a service`
* Add the newly created user to the `Log on as a service` right
* Open `Sql Server Configuration Manager` and change Sql Server service to use the newly created user
* Verify Sql Server is running after the service account change
* `Azure Portal` -> Create new Azure Storage Account with a File Share
* Copy the powershell script to connect to the account from Windows Server
* `Sql Server VM` using the PowerShell ISE open another instance of PowerShell ISE as the service account:
```
$password = ConvertTo-SecureString -String "<service-account-password>" -AsPlainText -Force
$credential = New-Object System.Management.Automation.PSCredential -ArgumentList "sqlservice", $password
Start-Process -FilePath PowerShell_ISE.exe -Credential $credential -LoadUserProfile 
```
* Inside the new PowerShell ISE, create credentias to zure Storage Account by executing portion of the script copied from Azure File Share:
```
cmd.exe /C "cmdkey /add:`"stlegacydata.file.core.windows.net`" /user:`"Azure\stlegacydata`" /pass:`"BRdqBVYqNntplnr2qvupQalfd/GYKaZc93jELe29lMgF5Q7YR7gJV4rDmFc/lpkthmza52qFAq7GdscoFrh/tQ==`""
```
* Verify code inside Sql Server Function `CqrsGenerateFileName` points to the Azure Storage:
```
...
Set @result = (
		'\\stlegacydata.file.core.windows.net\passcqrs\' + 
    @tableName + '\' +
		@event + '_' + 
		Replace(
			Replace(
				Replace(
					convert(varchar, SYSUTCDATETIME (), 21),' ','T'
				),'.','-'
			),':','-'
		) + '.json'
	);
...
```

* In the case of empty table, insert some data:
```
$dbname="Trapeze6_Generic"
sqlcmd -d $dbname -i ./fare-types/fare-types-dml.sql
```

## How to test

### Failure Test

* Double check there is no folder in the Azure File Share `FareTypes`
* Execute following statement in Sql Server Management Studio:
```
delete from dbo.CqrsErrors

INSERT [dbo].[FareTypes] ([FareTypeId], [FareTypeAbbr], [Description], [FlatFareAmt], [FlatRate], [DistanceRate], [PolygonRate], [TimeRate], [PolyTypeId], [PrepaidReq], [FareAdjustDiffZon], [FareAdjustSameZon], [DistanceLimitSameZon], [DistanceLimitDiffZon], [NumCode], [FareMode], [FareCalcType], [VariationOf], [MinFare], [MaxFare], [RoundFare], [DistanceLimit], [RoundDirection], [Accuracy], [InActive], [Timestamp])
VALUES (100, N'STA', N'Standard Fare', NULL, 2, 0, 0, 0, 0, NULL, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL)

update dbo.FareTypes
set FareTypeId = FareTypeId
where FareTypeId = 100

delete from dbo.FareTypes
where FareTypeId = 100

select * from CqrsErrors
```
* Records should appear in the table stating error writing file

### Success Test

* Create folder under Azure File Share `FareTypes`
* Execute the following statement in Sql Server Management Studio:
```
delete from dbo.CqrsErrors

INSERT [dbo].[FareTypes] ([FareTypeId], [FareTypeAbbr], [Description], [FlatFareAmt], [FlatRate], [DistanceRate], [PolygonRate], [TimeRate], [PolyTypeId], [PrepaidReq], [FareAdjustDiffZon], [FareAdjustSameZon], [DistanceLimitSameZon], [DistanceLimitDiffZon], [NumCode], [FareMode], [FareCalcType], [VariationOf], [MinFare], [MaxFare], [RoundFare], [DistanceLimit], [RoundDirection], [Accuracy], [InActive], [Timestamp])
VALUES (100, N'STA', N'Standard Fare', NULL, 2, 0, 0, 0, 0, NULL, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL)

update dbo.FareTypes
set FareTypeId = FareTypeId
where FareTypeId = 100

delete from dbo.FareTypes
where FareTypeId = 100

select * from CqrsErrors
```
* Open Azure File Share to see new file posted

Commit message:

adding ole permissions to user

README.md, after:

# Sql Server T-Sql Trigger Write File

## Objectives

* Implement t-sql triggers to write out file to disk
* One file per table per statement
* File content to list all the values and the action type taken
* Sql Server 2019 running on windows server 2019 data center edition VM on Azure
* File name: path with table name, action taken, dash, YYYY-MM-DDTHH-MM-SS-MS, dot, json
* File content:
```
[
	{
		"FareTypeId": 1,
		"FareTypeAbbr": "STA",
		"Description": "Standard Fare",
		"FlatRate": 2.0,
		"DistanceRate": 0.0,
		"PolygonRate": 0.0,
		"TimeRate": 0.0,
		"PolyTypeId": 0,
		"FareAdjustDiffZon": 0.0,
		"FareAdjustSameZon": 0.0,
		"DistanceLimitSameZon": 0.0,
		"DistanceLimitDiffZon": 0.0,
		"NumCode": 1,
		"FareMode": 0,
		"FareCalcType": 0,
		"Timestamp": "2002-10-02T15:00:00.05Z"
	}
]
```
* In case of error generating file, write record to sql server table: CqrsErrors
* A separate deliverable to send the files to Azure Event Hub
* A separate deliverable to implement CqrsErrors processing  

## Sql Server Configuration

* One-time setup using powershell execute:
```
$dbname="Trapeze6_Generic"
# Once per Sql Server instance
sqlcmd -d $dbname -i ./common/sqlserver-config.sql
# Once per Sql Server database 
sqlcmd -d $dbname -i ./common/fn-file-name.sql
sqlcmd -d $dbname -i ./common/fn-write-file.sql
sqlcmd -d $dbname -i ./common/cqrs-errors-ddl.sql
sqlcmd -d $dbname -i ./common/sp-log-cqrs-error.sql

# Once per table to cqrs
sqlcmd -d $dbname -i ./fare-types/tr-fare-types-cqrs.sql
```

* Login to Windows VM and create new user e.g. `sqlservice`
* Unselect: `User must change password at next login`
* Select: `Password never expires`
* Add the newly created user to `Administrators` group
* Open `Local Security Policies` -> `Local Policies` -> `User Rights Assignment` -> `Log on as a service`
* Add the newly created user to the `Log on as a service` right
* Open `Sql Server Configuration Manager` and change Sql Server service to use the newly created user
* Verify Sql Server is running after the service account change
* `Azure Portal` -> Create new Azure Storage Account with a File Share
* Copy the powershell script to connect to the account from Windows Server
* `Sql Server VM` using the PowerShell ISE open another instance of PowerShell ISE as the service account:
```
$password = ConvertTo-SecureString -String "<service-account-password>" -AsPlainText -Force
$credential = New-Object System.Management.Automation.PSCredential -ArgumentList "sqlservice", $password
Start-Process -FilePath PowerShell_ISE.exe -Credential $credential -LoadUserProfile 
```
* Inside the new PowerShell ISE, create credentias to zure Storage Account by executing portion of the script copied from Azure File Share:
```
cmd.exe /C "cmdkey /add:`"stlegacydata.file.core.windows.net`" /user:`"Azure\stlegacydata`" /pass:`"<storage-password>`""
```
* Verify code inside Sql Server Function `CqrsGenerateFileName` points to the Azure Storage:
```
...
Set @result = (
		'\\stlegacydata.file.core.windows.net\passcqrs\' + 
    @tableName + '\' +
		@event + '_' + 
		Replace(
			Replace(
				Replace(
					convert(varchar, SYSUTCDATETIME (), 21),' ','T'
				),'.','-'
			),':','-'
		) + '.json'
	);
...
```

* In the case of empty table, insert some data:
```
$dbname="Trapeze6_Generic"
sqlcmd -d $dbname -i ./fare-types/fare-types-dml.sql
```

## How to test

### Failure Test

* Double check there is no folder in the Azure File Share `FareTypes`
* Execute following statement in Sql Server Management Studio:
```
delete from dbo.CqrsErrors

INSERT [dbo].[FareTypes] ([FareTypeId], [FareTypeAbbr], [Description], [FlatFareAmt], [FlatRate], [DistanceRate], [PolygonRate], [TimeRate], [PolyTypeId], [PrepaidReq], [FareAdjustDiffZon], [FareAdjustSameZon], [DistanceLimitSameZon], [DistanceLimitDiffZon], [NumCode], [FareMode], [FareCalcType], [VariationOf], [MinFare], [MaxFare], [RoundFare], [DistanceLimit], [RoundDirection], [Accuracy], [InActive], [Timestamp])
VALUES (100, N'STA', N'Standard Fare', NULL, 2, 0, 0, 0, 0, NULL, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL)

update dbo.FareTypes
set FareTypeId = FareTypeId
where FareTypeId = 100

delete from dbo.FareTypes
where FareTypeId = 100

select * from CqrsErrors
```
* Records should appear in the table stating error writing file

### Success Test

* Create folder under Azure File Share `FareTypes`
* Execute the following statement in Sql Server Management Studio:
```
delete from dbo.CqrsErrors

INSERT [dbo].[FareTypes] ([FareTypeId], [FareTypeAbbr], [Description], [FlatFareAmt], [FlatRate], [DistanceRate], [PolygonRate], [TimeRate], [PolyTypeId], [PrepaidReq], [FareAdjustDiffZon], [FareAdjustSameZon], [DistanceLimitSameZon], [DistanceLimitDiffZon], [NumCode], [FareMode], [FareCalcType], [VariationOf], [MinFare], [MaxFare], [RoundFare], [DistanceLimit], [RoundDirection], [Accuracy], [InActive], [Timestamp])
VALUES (100, N'STA', N'Standard Fare', NULL, 2, 0, 0, 0, 0, NULL, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL)

update dbo.FareTypes
set FareTypeId = FareTypeId
where FareTypeId = 100

delete from dbo.FareTypes
where FareTypeId = 100

select * from CqrsErrors
```
* Open Azure File Share to see new file posted
* When creating an applicaiton user, the user must by granted following permissions in Sql Server:
```
use master
grant exec on sp_OACreate to <sqlUser>
grant exec on sp_OAMethod to <sqlUser>
grant exec on sp_OADestroy to s<sqlUser>lUser
```
